recently university of colorado
professor Ward Churchill has been in the
news for his comments on victims of the
9/11 terrorist attacks last night he
spoke in Boulder Colorado to a crowd of
about 1200 students and other supporters
he's introduced by Native American
activist and actor Russell Means this is
about an hour in ten minutes
thank you my relatives I want to first
apprise you before I introduce the many
accomplishments of Ward Churchill among
my people we are the only ethnic group
in the world that has to prove our
degree of blood like the dogs and the
horses it is because we live on
America's concentration camps the little
rocks called reservations you know we
also don't have control of our natural
resources and the corporate might has
been ripping us off from day one that's
part of the books and part of the
education that Ward has given to not
only to the University and its
generations of students but throughout
the country and indeed throughout the
world I want you to know that we are
forbidden from choosing who are our
Indian people by the United States
government my own twin brothers were 32
years of age and it was only after the
American Indian Movement and one of the
leaders being a war Churchill in the
late 70s got the right to be enrolled on
my father's reservation where I am
enrolled I wonder how many of
ClearChannel colonists and and naysayers
are going to condemn my brothers for not
being Indian warders my brother
Ward has followed the ways of indigenous
people worldwide if you do not believe
so then go to Geneva Switzerland to the
United Nations Office of the working
group of indigenous peoples and you will
find out that we as one people in the
world we say if you know your ancestry
then you are who you say you are in the
writings of Adolf Hitler
he began his idea of separation by race
and sexual preference by following and
reading about the Indian policy of the
United States of America and he wrote in
Mongkok or in other writings that it was
a good idea to put people on
reservations hence his labor camps hence
which became concentration camps and he
classified people they did not want by
race apartheid South Africa in 1964
passed the Bantu Development Act thirty
years at the United staff tur the United
States government passed the Indian
Reorganization Act read them both the
act that institutionalized apartheid by
race and degree of blood in South Africa
was literally copied from the Indian
Reorganization Indian Reorganization Act
of the United States both of those
governments no longer no longer exist
and you have these corporate minions
from Clear Channel and the corporate
media telling us who is our Indian
leaders telling me that my leader is not
an Indian because he hasn't been
adequately registered now I'm happy
happy to understand the media can't
answer any questions here ask questions
and because if Silverman was going to
ask
question I was gonna demand he show me
he's proof of Jewish blood before he
could ask a question now understand our
struggle what Churchill has understood
and you only have to read his dozens of
essays and almost two dozen books that
he's written I know the regions aren't
going to get through them all those
cowards
those cowards that cannot stand up for
women and cannot stand up
Ward has received many many honors from
the non-indian world but the biggest
honor and the only honor we can give him
and we have for dozens of years is to
make him what we call in my language
natal a leader a statesman and he's gone
around the country with that label and
it is a true label and I don't care what
Clear Channel says about or or the
internet says about his 16th or
three-sixteenths he's here's where it
counts and his writings are proof you
cannot convey to you the amount of pride
we have in war Churchill and the amount
of pride he gives us the sovereignty
that he gives us so that we can walk
tall our young people to this very day
and you just heard one here tonight
student here that is walking tall
because of Ward Churchill and the effect
he's had on in not only Indian policy
but on the minds of the young people who
are activists throughout our country
from coast to coast and Beyond Borders
the American Indian Movement when we had
a together leadership we appointed him
as an ambassador and he traveled
internationally representing us and all
Indian people because we are a free
people
so I went from this day forward every
media person nationally internationally
and locally to note that we have
ascertained that what Churchill is a
full-blooded Indian leader thank you
hello my relatives you humble me bill
Owens do you get it now you can count on
your toes you'll be able to count the
percentage points of contribution to the
budget the University of Colorado you
and your ilk have reduced your taxpayer
contribution to comes to seven I do not
work for the taxpayers of the state of
Colorado I do not work for Bill Owens
I work for you
that's my institutional role and I take
it very seriously I take the institution
and its well-being its mission and its
ability to perform that mission very
seriously that's one piece that's where
I am and that's who has invited me to
speak but here is another reality I am
NOT an abstract detached academic I have
responsibilities and grounding in an
actual community I take those
responsibilities very seriously in fact
they are preeminent I don't answer to
Bill Owens I don't answer in a sense
that they think I do to the Board of
Regents the Board of Regents should do
its job and let me do mine
and if Tom Lucero and his friends want
to debate the propriety of that I
welcome them to come and join an open
dialogue I have not yet been officially
informed they were even having a meeting
about me I read it in the Rocky Mountain
news i watch it on TV I understand I'm
being reviewed I haven't been notified
of that in any official sense either
but my per a minute as I said as I come
from an actual community and I have
responsibilities to that community and
it comes from what I was taught in the
values that were imparted to me within
that community and a piece comes from
I'm a stogie elder by the name of Philip
dear which some of you older people in
the room may actually even have heard
speak on this campus he was a very
important man and he gave me a certain
instruction at one point which had to do
with the way I was raised which was
outside of my tradition it was in my 20s
before I was allowed the opportunity
given the nature of the experience of my
people at the hands of the United States
I was in my 20s before I was given any
opportunity to make a direct connection
and Philip said that can be to your
advantage you understand our ways you
did not grow up in them you understand
them you understand the values you
understand the issues and you were able
to frame those because of the way you
were raised in terms that are understood
by others and it's your job you take
that which the creator gave you and you
follow that path you make your words
your weapons and you say things that you
understand to be true and you understand
them clearly and you never ever back up
and that's what I do
that is consistent for the Muscogee
tradition it's consistent with the
tradition of every person on this stage
and you know what it's also consistent
with the tradition of Thomas Jefferson
and of Kwame Nkrumah and of any number
of people from different cultures where
integrity and truth are valued this is
held as an ideal we share that in common
we share that in common in terms of an
aspiration but we also share that in
common as an obligation now a number of
things have been imputed to me but what
shall I call this the Boulder Denver
equivalent of the National Enquirer at
this point or the star couldn't make the
case on the issue and so now my pedigree
becomes the issue can you call me I got
a very important question I get a call
today from an unregistered Irishman okay
very important question can you put me
in touch with some of your buddies from
Vietnam we're gonna send a film crew to
your high school these people haven't
seen me in 40 years they have nothing to
do with this the issue was not
sustainable so I am to become the issue
well later for that later for that my
identity does not come from some Punk
editorial page editor at the Rocky
Mountain News or the Boulder Daily
Camera
I am the man it is said on the talk
shock radio in a Denver area who is
called for the deaths of millions of
Americans someone show me where I said
dad I am the man who has justified what
I consider to be natural inevitable you
do not justify the natural or the
inevitable you make comment on it you
don't have to advocate it you don't have
to justify it you simply point to it no
I did not call a bunch of food service
workers janitors children firefighters
and random passers-by little Eichmann's
it says clearly in that passage which
perhaps I should have amplified further
in terms of the connotation of Ackman
because I understood people would
understand as I did what I can symbolize
but apparently not it says clearly in
that passage the reference is to a
technical core of Empire the technicians
of Empires someone want to give me a
coherent definition by someone by which
someone who has 18 months old or someone
who serves food for a living or someone
who pushes a broom or someone who is
trying to save people in the building or
someone who was just walking by becomes
a technician of any sort obviously I was
not talking about these people I was
talking about some very specific I'll
take a specific technical crowd rate who
make this particular system hum and I'm
going to come back to that in a second
but the people at issue and these are
the only people who have been raised the
construction is fairly clear I've been
told it was a bad rhetorical device well
I don't think so you've got a better
rhetorical device go use it make people
think about this your way this was mine
the people at issue on that red herring
would be referred to by Don Rumsfeld or
Norman black I mean Schwarzkopf and the
other people who stand in the podium
stand official fora to make
pronouncements and a half of the federal
government of the United States those
people those firefighters those service
workers those children would be referred
to as something called collateral damage
not even as human beings and that was
implicit to the formulation but now let
me come back a little bit to what my
argument actually was once the diversion
to one phrase out of one sentence out of
120 page essay out of 24 published
volume 70 book chapters 100 dirty
journal journal articles about one
little phrase I'll come back to it what
did I really say and why did I say it
well there were certain questions being
posed on the day I wrote that essay
before the building's even came down and
I watched it in real time I heard the
whole thing described as senseless not
it seems senseless it might be senseless
no here's how you're to frame and
understand this it's senseless and I'm
saying to myself how could they possibly
know this did they arrange it no I'm not
making that accusation accusation the
point is clear however they couldn't
possibly know that it was senseless
senseless means to have no purpose do
you really believe that this operation
was carried out for no purpose you can
agree with the purpose you can disagree
with the purpose but you can't
rationally consign this to having no
purpose whatsoever what might that
purpose be
well I come from a certain context I
come from a certain set of experiences
they're real experiences they're not
abstract experiences and based on those
experiences I do a little kids game
called dot - dot this dot connects to
that dot connection to that dot and hey
if you connect the dots you get a
pattern and actually on that pattern you
start to understand something let me
take the first dot okay you were dressed
by someone from the Pine Ridge
Reservation a few moments ago there's a
county on the Pine Ridge Reservation
Shannon County Shannon County has been
the absolute poorest County in the
United States for fifty of the last 50
years and by poorest I don't mean unable
to afford to get the new color TV gee
whiz I can't trade my truck I'm talking
about a per capita income of less than
$3,000 per year to try to survive South
Dakota winters I'm talking about an
unemployment rate that runs into the
90th percentile every year I'm talking
about a life expectancy that's one-third
shorter generation in generation out
than the average American one third
truncation of a life span and that's the
overall data with regard to reservation
based native North America urban based
is not appreciably better that's 35th
percentile attrition of the population
every generation for the last five
generations I don't know how you define
a genocide and impact of a policy
imposition but that comes real close in
my book okay I call it genocide
it comes through a degree of
impoverishment the results in a
continuous dome of death from
malnutrition nutritionally related
diseases continuous tone of death in a
miseration room rarely communicated
diseases I'm talking about a third world
degree of impoverishment of an entire
people based on the racial definition
imposed on us us by the federal
government of the United States in
behalf of its imagined constituency
which includes everybody else not on an
even playing field but in gradients and
the degree of impoverishment devolves
from something called plenary power that
the federal government has assigned
itself if there's any law professors in
the room you'll know what I'm talking
about
plenary power in plain English rather
than legalese means absolute
unchallengeable fire power to make
disposition of our affairs and our
assets with that they've assigned
themselves a trust authority over those
assets when those assets are exploited
by American corporations they're
exploited at a discount royalty rate
discount deep 90% they paying 10 cents
on the dollar bill if they detain on the
open market for the minerals and the
money does not go to the people whose
minerals that were it's placed in trust
accounts administered by the Bureau of
Indian Affairs you want to know where
Indian destitution comes from you want
to know why our lifespans are truncated
accordingly you want to know why our
children are so desperate that they are
committing suicide at 14 times the
national average do you want to know why
all those things come together right now
there's a case in the federal courts
Cobell in which it is conceded that the
Bureau of Indian Affairs in combination
with the Treasury Department of the
United States government has misplaced
150 billion dollars worth of assets
thanks money by federal account there's
two million Indians you want to divide
two million into 150 dollars and see
what our standard of living would be if
it wasn't being spit on designer
overpasses if it wasn't being spent on
the accouterments of the quality of life
that every American yuppie has decided
that they are divinely entitled to enjoy
does that make me angry yeah it does
Churchill's angry he speaks angrily he
speaks forcefully I don't think the
issue however is white Churchill would
be angry about that for question his
white governor Bill Owens and a Board of
Regents are not and they've had nothing
to say
and don't link that up in my mind to
what was then pronounced to be
approximately five hundred and
sixty-five thousand Iraqi children had
do it who had died needlessly in less
than five years by needlessly they too
were dying of nutritionally related
illnesses they too were dying of readily
curable diseases because of a set of
sanctions that the United States forced
it off on a pretext of it being UN and
imposed in order to make the people
themselves scream to the point where
they would compel their leadership to
become free as defined by George Herbert
Walker Bush meaning to understand that
what we say goes
this was no mystery this is official UN
report it was confirmed it was known to
be confirmed by Madeleine abre US
ambassador at the time to the United
Nations on no less public of venue than
60 minutes in 1996 Lesley Stahl asked
her are you aware of this
is half million plus children of another
people and she says yes we're aware
we've decided it's worth the price it's
worth the price in somebody else's
children to ensure that they get the
message that what we say goes
and I thought about my brother Russell
Means in 1982 when we were engaged in a
physical occupation of a piece of ground
outside Rapid City I learned from Russ
to not just filler dear that was 1982
that was the time of the Battle of
Beirut and they had the PLO fighters
sealed in and they were bombarding
Beirut and they were gonna kill Arafat
okay they had a quid pro quo arrangement
where he could go for sanctuary if he
could leave but no one would take him
and Russ convened a press conference and
he said something that had to be pretty
close to this the Palestinians of North
America offers sanctuary to the American
Indians of
Middle East we have that relationship
those dots are connected now I was
picking that up on 9-1-1 basically in
stream-of-consciousness because they
were asking this question how could this
happen why do they hate us and my
responses look at this how could they
not every Palestinian child shot in the
head for throwing a rock and the
Intifada is being shot with munitions
provided by the United States the
munitions were fired from a rifle
provided by the United States when they
look up and see those helicopters that
are taking out apartment blocks because
they suspect somebody they don't like is
in there
collateral damage ensues the helicopter
and the missile are provided by the
taxpayers of the United States and see
the problem is not just at the material
the monetary support in the political
endorsements provided by the government
of the United States but there's this
overwhelming embrace of the policy by
the general citizenry of the United
States and this tallies
this tallies in tens and scores and
hundreds of thousands and then millions
and tens of millions of darker-skinned
others being piled up in a name of
profit maximization stability for the
strategic interest and ultimately
economic interest of the United States
actually I've talked about chickens
coming home to roost after Malcolm X but
these chickens I said were more like
ghosts and I talked about those ghosts
the Iraqi goes first the children but
then there's another half million adults
in a country of 20 million people and I
talked about the Palestinians and I
talked about the grenade ins and I
talked about the Panamanians and I
talked about the Salvadorans of
Nicaraguans and I talked about the
Guatemalan Upland Mayans and I talked
about the bodies that were stuffed in
the well at no Gondry and I went
backwards from Korea to a couple of
nuclear bombings were worried about
weapons of mass destruction in the
country that has the largest inventory
in the world in the only country that
has ever used them on civilian targets
and intentionally and so on civilian
targets
and pointed it out that while the nukes
are best known they weren't the worst of
it Curtis Lemay's carefully orchestrated
fire raids conducted in the spring of
1945 at Tokyo and one night alone they
inflicted a hundred and ten thousand
casualties cremated civilians
intentionally they built burn zones out
in Utah to figure out the best way to
ignite wood and paper cities this was
deliberate intentional this was a matter
of policy probably a half million
Japanese were burned alive in the
process of sending the message that they
too would understand that what we say
goes
and back to the liberation of the
Philippines from the Spanish Empire to
make it an American colony in the deaths
of six hundred thousand to one point
five million so-called morals a
pejorative term
Tagalog speakers call the Indians of the
Philippines entire provinces
deliberately cleared a population by
virtue of liquidating them order signed
by American military leadership to kill
every single male over ten years of age
oh yeah they didn't teach you that in
high school history did they and bill
with Owens doesn't what you taught about
that now
and that happened ten years after
Wounded Knee and the reconstituted
seventh Cavalry in the Hotchkiss guns
and disarmed and immobilized people
butchered in the snow and dumped into a
mass grave and I actually used the
imagery from Wounded Knee in a book on
comparative genocide juxtaposing the
dumping of the bodies into the mass
grave at Wounded Knee and the dumping of
the bodies into mass graves by the
Einsatzgruppe and in Eastern Europe and
people sometimes get them confused which
is which the symbolism and the reality
are fused the reality is what's at issue
and taking that string of massacres
running all the way back to when a group
of people now known as the [ __ ] injure
who supposedly sold Manhattan Island to
the Dutch for a handful of glass beads
and trinkets objected to the idea that
they'd sold our land because what they
understood they did was accept rental
payment for use of a particular portion
of Manhattan Island as a trading center
which they could do business with the
Dutch in a Dutch who knew fully well
that this had not been a sale but rather
a rental resolve the issue by sending a
military expedition up the island to
dispense with a Wappingers doing so so
far rapidly that they felt that no one
would believe how successful they've
been when they went back so they took
the heads of the fighting aged males and
the leadership and carried them back in
wolven baskets to display to make proof
of the fact that they had butchered a
lot and a citizenry was so happy they
gathered round to watch a jolly sporting
contest kickball in which the heads of
the slain owners of the land were used
as the ball roughly on a place where the
foundation of the World Trade Center was
situated that's the history of the place
which sits approximately at the end of
Wall Street we know about Wall Street in
terms of its economic important its
influence its symbolic value what most
of us don't know is it takes its name
from the wall of a slave enclosure which
formed the economy of the city which is
now considered the economic hub of
Empire that's the history and those
ghosts those transatlantic ghosts were
there too and the Chinese that laid the
track on the railroad and did the Sheep
deep shaft mining who had not a
Chinaman's chance of surviving outs
where that turn comes from oh yeah they
were all there there was a load of
Carmen do and what I said was when you
treat people this way when you kill
their babies as a matter of course and
say it has no consequence when you
devalue demean and degrade others to
this point naturally and inevitably what
you're putting out will blow back on you
and that's what happened on that
and the question the question was on
everybody's lips as they whined innocent
American as if they had fused it into
all one word if we're American by
definition we're innocent no matter what
it is we do in the world what we embrace
what the consequences are we're
Americans were innocent we're
consequential they're valueless get the
symmetry straight how do we keep
ourselves safe and this sort of thing
coming back oh how could they do this
they hate our freedom they're evil
Tiger cages and want dynamo Bay
licensing of torture techniques which we
have Harvard constitutional lawyers now
arguing should be permissible the
cloning of more and more Delta units
commando teams assassination squads
counterterrorism wanting of people they
wanted me apparently see that I wouldn't
commit suicide while standing at the
poem podium tonight and actually I've
got my 357 terrorism waichman right here
and my belt for all the good it did him
pounding my tweezers did not save anyone
who heard the last time an aircraft was
kidnapped by a terrorist using tweezers
plucking the eyebrows of a frantic
stewardess in order to I mean that's the
level of insanity we are when you get
serious about security and in some
aspects of it our security do you think
that's going to work against people who
are embittered and hate you for the very
good reason that you're butchering their
children or presumed impunity ask the
Israelis they've got the most highly
perfected and developed a security state
on the planet and you got 14 year old
kids walking in there with bundles of
dynamite and blowing them right out of
cafes you want to put your well-being
and that of your children on a system
and a structure to a set of priorities
like that
go ahead but count me and mine out okay
if you want to be secure if you want to
be able to live a human life in all of
its full dimension if you want to have
the security of that to pass along to
your children if you want to be valued
in other words as a human being I don't
want to get biblical here but do unto
others as you would expect to have done
unto yourself that's my first
proposition
if you want to be secure from that
natural and inevitable response to what
it is the America's putting out in the
world start with stopping killing of
their babies according the fundamental
dignity of being human not collateral
damage an America has been able to
provide the world with an endless stream
of glowing rhetoric but how on that
basis since they violated all of it
since they've always said one thing and
acted precisely the opposite is anyone
out there going to believe anyone here
if those assurances are made here's my
real crushing blow this is the radical
finale of the whole thing let's just try
pretending for a moment that the United
States of America like every other
entity in the planet is bound to obey
the law
that's my argument reduced to its bare
bones I can flesh it out in Q&A I'm not
the Board of Regents we will have
interchange you will not be arrested for
attempting to engage in it but I
understand since that it is what it was
that I had to say and I had every right
indeed the obligation not only as a
citizen but under the terms of my
contract and as a human being I'm not
backing up an inch I owe no one apology
clarifications
clarification is one thing that's my job
- apologies another but those who have
been trying to elicit that in some cases
I think have simply been asking the
wrong question wanting to know if I
experience sorrow mourning something
like that with a regard to the children
who died on the aircraft and in the
buildings of 9/11 one day and the answer
is yes of course and for the
firefighters and for the food service
workers and for the broom pushers and
for the random passers-by yow I do and
it's absolute it's unequivocal and it's
not one whit more proportionately
significant than the morning the sorrow
I experienced for every single one of
those Araki Jill drew for every single
one of those Palestinians over
none of them have been mentioned in the
criticism in any way at all it's a one
track record leading back to the 9-1-1
victims and nothing else I even had an
Air Force colonel tell me about the last
group of people who had a civilian
occupied facility meaning the hijackers
on 9/11 Afghanistan and Iraq either
didn't happen or the people there
weren't I can show you that email
any minute seriously he did not mean it
maliciously that is the Genocide Ulm in
tality that is the core of the problem
when I start hearing equals sorrow for
those brown-skinned others out there
dying in the millions maybe we're
getting to someplace where all the
children will be safe and all the people
will be saved
and I learned from where I am I am not
Cheyenne but this is Cheyenne land and
I've been there here as long as many of
you have been alive and I learned
something about their ways it's about to
pick a pan or stake
sometimes you stand out because there's
a tack coming and you stake yourself to
the ground so you can't get out
you can't retreat that's your statement
it comes with red paint well there's no
red paint here literally but see it now
I drove my pickets take my picket pin is
in I'm staked out there is not an inch
of give in this not at this level of
whether I get to speak what I say when I
speak or what the function is
institution is all right this
institution needs to be protect from the
ravages of the rabid right wing but it
has to be protected on grounds that
saved the institution
with that I think we got commonality we
got solidarity we got everything we need
to prevail and keep this institution
what it is that it's supposed to be and
actually to improve it weaken what kills
you what doesn't kill you they say gives
you strength we come out of this
stronger and clearer about what our
institutional mission and our rights are
then we went in in the first place on a
NAT score we ought to be thanking oh
right
we had to be thanking Joe Scarborough we
ought to be thanking Kevin Flynn we had
to be thanking the yo-yos in the local
paper and we ought to be thanking the
Board of Regents and governor Owens as
well but ah see
Oh give me hope you all get me home
let's go take these in no particular
order not feeling greatly professor
Sorel at the moment so you got a
question just rotate among yourselves
back and forth as it was requested keep
it short so more questions can be asked
I'll go ahead my name is Shelley Benson
I had a question one of the issues that
have not been discussed in recent
discourse is the question of freedom of
speech and academic freedom and what
this means especially in a university
system where ideas are supposed to be
discussed openly and freely
would you please add two comments to
this yeah I will in summary but I'll
refer you to a document the central to
this institution called the rules of the
Regents of Colorado okay and it says
quite specifically in intent and
definition section that any faculty
member that says anything anything is
explicitly to be protected from
political repercussions of what it is
they said that is an impermissible
gesture to attempt to suppress political
speech in any form under the rubric of
the University of Colorado that's not a
guideline that's a matter of law yeah
it's not been framed that way but you
need to understand that that forms the
basis of the contract of every faculty
member at the institution tenured or
know you are required to do and
permitted to do certain things
contractually in accordance with the
rules of the Ridgid of the rules of the
regions it's called contract law it is
legally binding there is no magic line
articulated beyond which one steps and
the people who politically disagree with
it are empowered to remove you
that is the absolute fundamental bedrock
upon which the academic edifice stands
and I have defended people who I
considered to be Tanjung upon not see on
that basis and I actually find them
useful they're the perfect foil to my
arguments let them carry their own case
people need to hear from them in order
to form opinions
just like they need to hear from me
I am NOT a student I'm a father of a
student but I'd like to like to make a
brief statement here in 1969 my name is
Bill home in 1969 I had the honor of
sharing the stage with Russell Means at
the University of Minnesota Kauffman
Center with him and the Ojibwe and the
my Lakota brothers as a Vietnam veteran
as a member of the Vietnam Veterans
Against the War
it's rather prophetic that we're here
sitting here 30 years later talking
about another unjustified war my concern
is I may or may not disagree with you
sir but I defend the right for you to
say whatever you wish to say in terms of
academic freedom
and that's all you need to do in the
process of that we can talk and in the
process of talking both our minds may
change but if we can't talk if one of
the other of us is prevented that can't
happen if there is no dialogue there is
war
professor Churchill of a grad student
here on campus and perhaps you can clear
up a question that I have is this attack
upon you in any way related to the
acquittal of you and the other
protesters for the protest Columbus Day
funny you should ask what do you think
well I believe the city is out to get us
anyway but I'd like to hear what you
have to say on the matter please yeah it
was a target of opportunity the lion run
on me right now this is a weird position
to be in
ok I don't know what their selection
process was but this is the kickoff and
it's been stated by Newt Gingrich and
it's been stated by David Horowitz and
it's been stated by Joe Scarborough and
and for that matter it's been stated by
certain members of the Board of Regents
and the governor and the legislature of
the state of Colorado this is the
opening around an intended general purge
of divergent ideas of which they do not
approve and it's already happening it
was mentioned that there will be a rally
for Adrian Anderson tomorrow I don't
know how many people know the nature of
what it is that happened with Adrian but
her contract was not renewed despite the
fact there was overwhelming student
enthusiasm for what it was she was
teaching she was rated by her peers as
well as students as an outstanding
teacher including by the guy who deep
sixed er who noted it a caveat at the
bottom and evaluation and said she is an
excellent classroom teacher she engages
the students compels critical inquiry
and all the rest buddy says I wonder how
this information would be received by
the son or daughter of one of the upper
division management at Coors
understand the message if you're gonna
offend the offenders you're not to be
allowed to talk about it which means the
offenses are not to be interrogated
examined - understood correctly that's
the object that's the Republican agenda
as they articulated frankly I don't
consider these guys to be Republicans
there's an end worded ending and eyes
that I think is more appropriate but hey
I used that analogy too often bill Owen
says I'm not qualified for my job
excellent scholar that he is overarching
authority of a subject matter
calls for my job on that I should resign
he says or be fired well I'll return the
compliment
at least bill learn how the budget works
and how to read the Constitution before
you purport to speak in behalf of about
half the voters of the state of Colorado
who voted against you buddy okay I'm
glad I came here tonight I've heard a
lot more than I heard in the average
sound bytes I'm hearing on a radio I
agree with some points there are other
points I disagree with but I do believe
you have a constitutional right to say
what you have to say on the other hand
do you agree that the First Amendment
rights for the people who march in a
Columbus Day parade should be taken away
because that is their freedom of
expression as well
and I'm one of those people let me
answer the man no I don't believe you
have a First Amendment right because
that bounces off against my ninth
Amendment right you know what my ninth
Amendment rights are do you know what
the ninth amendment says no sir
yeah do we have a law professor in here
I think this is a lesson for the law
school because I addressed another
University auditorium with about this
many people in it last week and I posed
the same question to the whole group
professors students townspeople no not a
soul including law professors could tell
me what the damn Ninth Amendment said
suppose there might be a reason for that
disaster sir sir does that negate the
First Amendment
actually wronged me what it says in very
close paraphrase is all rights not
otherwise enumerated here in that in
hearing the people are retained by them
okay you can have a real entertaining
time looking at where the nature of
those rights is articulated and it can
be rather nebulous and it can be
dateable and debatable but I'll tell you
one place you can look where it's not
debatable at all and that's in black
leather legal articulation that goes to
human rights particularly articulation
of international human rights to take
the form of ratified treaties under
article 6 of the Constitution of the
United States those are supreme law of
the land and among them or fundamental
human dignity okay in celebration of the
conditions that I was describing as
pertaining to Native people as an
outcome of the process initiated by
Christopher Columbus celebrating that
guy in any respect at all as a
celebration of those conditions that's a
denial of fundamental human dignity
that's a denial of my ninth Amendment
rights and you don't have a right to do
that and you know it's exactly what
you're doing I beg to disagree
respectfully and I'd love to debate that
issue and my right to be here as an
American who is every much an American
as you are anybody up on that podium and
my next party thank you it will be
separate from this forum thank you Ward
apparently a Dustin over here thought
it'd be necessary for the Senators goony
over here to try to keep me from
speaking but I'm glad he went over here
and is letting me speak thanks Dustin
speak also speech team to come down
against the technocratic quarters you've
called it you've compared them to little
Eichmann's but but not the food service
workers not the janitors and what not
more so I can hear you all right you got
time to frame your question don't take
too much time but take enough time that
I can understand it yes it um you seem
to come against the technocratic core
the students here virtually every one of
us we're not
raining here we're not studying here to
become food service workers or janitors
so are we all so little like mints
that's your choice what what about the
men and women in the towers who are your
little Eichmann's did they all choose to
be these little Eichmann's and what out
of us how would we choose not to be a
little Eichmann what what would we be
saying not to make a speech would oppose
the question you posed it I'll answer it
okay when you knowingly accept the
collateral effects a business practice
as usual projected by the United States
into the rest of the planet and even if
you don't agree with it contribute your
expertise your technical ability your
proficiency to furthering the process of
extermination of masses of children for
your own personal gain and benefit to
fit into the structure without
challenging it you are in the Hannah
Arendt metaphysical sense of Eichmann
Eichmann Simmons just for clarification
general now you're done you asked the
question I answered the question okay
next person all right something that
rang really true with what your speech
is that you don't work for Bill owns you
work for us and with that in mind just
like simple consumer and you are the
producer you supply here if by chance
there was a way to work it out where the
consumer could voice their opinion in a
voting matter and whichever way it goes
boat on whether we want you to freely
express it and I have faith looking
around would you accept that decision if
either way if they don't see how it
would work buddy you got some concrete
plan you come talk to me I'm not going
to accept something I don't understand
on its face so painful Clyde she found
but I don't understand the Mae
if by chance it was in the same student
elections that happened over here in
grant there's not very high
participation which is a negative sign
would you accept the results no actually
I think I do understand what you're
saying and no mic position that is my
job my responsibility my obligation what
I was hired to do is not a popularity
contest or subject to the political role
of
I work for you in the sense that 80% of
my salary is paid by you at least the
taxpayers subsidize 7% at 6000 bucks
the tuition formula here is such that a
faculty member teaching 25 student load
breaks even institutionally I teach on
average 85 I've returned money to the
general fund every year I've taught here
they're in a negative numbers on me
guide but my obligation is to you is to
be clear it's not to equivocate my
position or have you remove me if you
don't like the position if you don't
like the position there's other classes
there are students who benefit from mile
okay we got about I don't know I can't
tell how many I'm gonna take about four
or five more questions on this and I'm
gonna quit on basically fatigue ground
so you can hear my voice is go and I've
been teaching all day and I'm starting
to get blurry and I don't want to give
incoherent answers I want to get sharp
answers to as many questions as I can
and then stand down so four maybe five
depending on the questions I was just
wondering where do you get the gall to
call the people who died in 9/11
technocrats when you sit around and get
a 90 thousand dollar paycheck from the
government you purport to hate to answer
the question to answer the question yo
he's posed a question I'll answer the
question and it really goes to the
question of a sucker you consider
yourself innocent no you show me where I
ever said what I said was I tend to fly
more on these gigs than the average
American making myself more susceptible
to being strapped into a passenger seat
on three hundred thousand pound cruise
missile I've been every moment of my
adult existence and flat-out opposition
in every way I knew to the status quo of
this country but I have not changed it
into that extent I have not made it up
to the responsibility I am NOT innocent
and I'm subject to the same penalty and
that's the answer to your question if
you don't get a second you don't get a
second
sit down apparently don't understand the
language to understand that was the
opposite of his Spock receipt okay over
here sir good evening to you first and
foremost I want to say that out sharifa
Liam could make it he was a gentleman
that was arrested for his attempt for
what they call was a violent act and I
want you to know that we were on the
internet looking at it and even in Saudi
Arabia they picked it up and they see it
and they know that this is a farce it's
a game to get rid of you and I want you
to know from new urban perspective we
down with you we wish you we got your
back we don't choose to be activists by
choice we're forcing tor for situations
like these for our children and I just
want you to know I've been to jail with
you for further demonstrations on
Columbus Day and I was proud to do it
you know and I didn't realize until two
years ago that my grandmother was a
Navajo so I got to her back more than
you know and for those out here who who
got problems with it for lack of
knowledge you perish and not no dollar
in this world gonna save you when hell
comes to you peace be with you
and you tell Sharif I'll be talking to
him tomorrow anyway I've been trying to
get in touch but it's been hard because
these guys consider their livelihood to
be my obligation to feed me they ever
get anything I say straight anyway first
I want to thank you dr. Churchill thank
you
Oh baby not necessary actually I
appreciate it but I am simply trying to
meet my obligations and responsibilities
as best I can and that's the truth of it
forgive me for the prepared statement
and I'm just a graduate student I
haven't figured it all out yet right
we're gonna let you governor you keep it
up
only if you stump for me ward it's with
great brute I'll get use a lot of air
time but this is actually for all the
the folks that have been at calling for
Ward's head on a pike it was with great
urgency and humble deference that I
approached you at this dark hour it
appears in one of our great scholars
activists ins friends is falling prey to
an antiquated government of Winthrop Ian
ISM word Churchill deserve support from
the community which he has served with
noble courage and pioneering resolve how
can we the community dr. Churchill's
forged out of his own years and tears
abandon him at the city on the hill
which he has sought to make level-4 all
I employer to recall the days when
radical women took to the streets
demanding their inalienable rights to
suffrage has history vindicated these
women or like these women's heroes and
Hutchinson and Mary Dyer is dr.
Churchill to burn what are those people
unit did no disrespect but I last I got
to be same rules for everybody okay it's
a statement for those of us who were
shut for those of us that were shut out
at the regents office what are those
people who seek punitive Lee to censor
and banish the man who was unselfishly
for decades advocated and compromised
himself for the Equality of indigenous
Americans African Americans and many
really I appreciate it would like to
have a copy but honestly
two more one on each side okay I'll keep
it quick I promise thank you I'm here
tonight as a student of words both
present and past and I just want all of
the media and all of the students here
to know this man is an excellent teacher
and that's why we should be here and
that's why we should be supporting him
I've read just about 10 of his books and
if people actually pick them up did the
readings and did the research they'd
realize what he's actually about that's
what I just wanted
good evening sir it's a great honour to
actually be here and to be able to talk
to you I drove from Laramie to come see
you speak because I thought that
everything that was being said about you
on the news could not be true because if
it was true you would never have been
allowed to teach I am the type of person
I read the coverage in the paper of the
Iraqi people who have been killed and I
almost throw up I want to ask you did
you ever think that a sentence out of
your essay that you had written out of
the volumes that you have written would
ever be taken out of context like this
would ever have been blown out of
proportion like this and that we would
be standing here today honest answer to
that is no no it's a weird position to
be in but it's a position I've been put
in and it's a responsibility that has
put put in my face on my shoulders
however you want to look at it and I'm
not gonna back away from it I'm not
going to back away
this is sort of a clothing thing I was
asked to say is something I should have
said myself in my talk so let me back
off the podium with this statement
clarification again if you will I ended
the piece and I ended my presentation
with a call for take your pick
law enforcement or obedience to law that
that begins right here that begins with
the honoring the obedience to the
treaties with the indigenous peoples
whose land we all stand on it begins
here if you can't do that one you can't
do any of them you do the one that's
toughest for you yourself first and the
rest of us a downhill slide get used to
the idea you gotta have a lawful right
or you got to have a collaborative
interaction with the people whose
property you occupy you can't starve the
children's and death in the name of a
pretension to ownership and jurisdiction
over someone else's land do whatever if
you get one further up and a few a guy
but it's over now so sorry
you're watching c-span created as a
public service by America's cable
television companies coming up President
Bush and Iran Iraq and the Medicare
prescription drug benefit after that a
hearing on accounting practices at
Fannie Mae and if you missed any of this
speech by University of Colorado
professor war Churchill will show it
again at around 1:00 a.m. Eastern
tomorrow morning on Washington Journal